Librarians 2.0 connect users to experts' discussions and to communities of practice; they develop social networks and encourage users to develop content and metadata.
Librarians 2.0 understand the 'wisdom of crowds' and the new roles of the blogosphere and wikisphere.
Maness [18] adds that Librarian 2.0 acts as a facilitator.
In the current climate of higher education, the role of the librarian is changing.
Librarians already have very fruitful discussions using the internet (e.g. NLS -Forum and Web4Lib), but they seem relatively isolated from other groups.
Librarians tend to be slow and careful, offering fixity, being guardians of culture.
Librarianship as a profession is confronting a growing demand to prove its worth.
each other? Librarianship:
In such an environment, librarians orchestrate access but need not be confronted.
Although embedded librarianship is gaining prominence, not every librarian has read accounts of it, let alone experimented with a programme of their own.
The author contrasts the embedded approach with the so-called traditional way of librarianship.
These organisational and business forces open up fertile possibilities for librarians because they place a premium value on competencies and outlooks that most librarians already possess, though perhaps have not fully actualised.
Librarians are not immune to the wholesale, almost giddy appropriation of promising new methodologies, especially ones promulgated as a cure for the disintermediation blues, a malady that seems to grow progressively worse as digital information tools and sources expand.
In these settings, an embrace of librarians as equals by user groups is implausible.
New Review of Academic Librarianship.
During a lifelong library career, 2 out of 5 librarians will face a major disaster in their library.
I know a whole lot of great librarians I have never met and wouldn’t recognize if I saw them on the street.
Library school?
Now, I always swore to myself that I would never, ever be a (God forbid) traditional librarian.
As I look back again at my library school days, I can see that I learned much more than the kinds of things most people associate with librarians.
"Should librarians be educators?".
Politically, economically, socially, this is what is being demanded of librarians.
Librarians can work most effectively by developing these mobile services to be as effective as possible by being context-specific and directly meeting users' needs.
The Internet Project in Anglia and Oxford has supported librarians by providing the means, the training and the support to reverse this situation.
Librarians have views on everything: access, use policy, system security, multimedia use, privacy, censorship, and the Web debate has just made them more vocal.
The advice is simple, straightforward and always full of this librarians-can-do-anything attitude.
When librarians possess technical skills that can be shared with faculty, staff and students, such as knowledge of RefWorks, it reflects well on the library.
But it is not clear that librarians themselves have fully engaged with the opportunities offered by social media.
Librarians are facing significant challenges in providing information in this digital age.
A Librarian's Guide, 2nd Edition"
[6] and Voices for the Library [7]; they can offer a new image of librarians and information professionals and lead the profession as a whole in a new direction.
What should be tried instead is to create a mindset so users realise that the librarian / the library is able to help.
Librarians are involved now in training and supporting the users of information, and have every reason to be optimistic about the value and need for this in future.
The majority of librarians like being librarians but appreciate that they have an evolving educational role.
The developments above issue an exciting challenge and prospect for librarians.
The major issue for many individual librarians is whether they feel skilled to deliver “electronic library” training and support.
People often used to describe librarianship as the organisation of recorded knowledge, so perhaps our time has come?
The weekend brought together over one hundred public librarians from Oban to Guernsey, and representatives of library suppliers.
A librarian working with a wide ranging consortium of HE, FE and public libraries to create a digital library; An academic specialising in teaching HE staff to use C&IT in their own teaching; Two university managers involved in their institution-wide MLE projects, one a librarian, one an ICT professional; A learning technology expert (not a librarian) involved in developing a digital resource centre of granular teaching and learning materials.
and recognition of the librarian's contribution to the educational process is still not common.
Issues related to copyright, privacy, standards, and government information delivery are very familiar to librarianship as a whole [13]; and Community networks often struggle for adequate funding.
Librarians and the Free-Net Movement.
Sadly, although there is much debate, many librarians feel that it is ill-informed.
These librarians are known as Section Editors and are responsible for a specific subject area of the catalogue.
Librarians have to create new strategic spaces, offering unique value to their users.
Developing platforms allowing users to discover established information as well as creating new material may assuredly be a path to follow for librarians.
We are not as valued as librarians, who have chartered status.
Miriam Drake, Dean and Director of the Library and Information Centre at Georgia Institute of Technology, feels that librarians should concern themselves with making money for their libraries and confesses that most of her time is spent doing just that.
The aim of the Summer School, however, is to do this very thing to prepare librarians for setting up their own digital library.
What is our personal goal in the library as a librarians.
Developers have to get out of their silos and listen to both librarians and users.
(University Librarian)
(Site Librarian)
(Site Librarian)
Librarians are fearful for their professional identity as never before.
(Deputy Librarian)
(Assistant Librarian)
This was an area where librarians had relevant expertise.
The librarians are profiling the academic staff they will target with network support in the 1996/97 academic year.
The central question here is what purpose does a librarian serve when so many of our users can now tune in or log on without our involvement.
Perhaps 'librarian' is now a subset of 'information professional' rather than simply a different label.
Specialist librarians often develop substantial expertise in their subject areas which is occasionally captured in a book, newspaper article or library-oriented publication, but usually it is only ever deployed in the context of customer engagement and professional networking.
Its no good just telling other librarians how good your services are.
[sic] as though to illustrate that librarians can be as hip and cool as the regular guys in the blogging community.
(apart from the obvious no sniggers please, I’m a librarian).
Librarians at the British Library or the Library of Congress are custodians of vast national (and international) collections for the cultural enrichment of us all.
librarians, had grasped its potential.
Shifting the role of librarians from information professionals toward library user educators.
How many Librarians brought the Web and e-mail to their institutions?
They change things constantly (advisory to help desk to service desk to on-line FAQs and help), but librarians come from a background of 500 years of stability.
Not all libraries will have the opportunity to hire and support dedicated children's librarian professionals, who necessarily have many of the skills and know-how that this book offers in a concise, and very readable form.
Our perspective will be of interest to librarians and other information professionals in libraries or other nonprofit contexts.
It has become apparent that librarians are beginning to carve a new role for themselves using their highly relevant skill set: metadata  knowledge; understanding of repositories; direction of open sharing of publications; good relationships with researchers and good connections with other service departments.
Similar reports have indicated that librarians are overtaxed already, lack personal research experience, have little understanding of the complexity and scale of issue.
[16], a best practice wiki for librarians, created by Meredith Farkas, Distance Learning Librarian at Norwich University, Vermont.
It is a one-stop-shop for ideas and information for librarians, whether public, academic or specialist.
It will be interesting to watch 'the eLib generation' of young librarians returning from T and A courses tooled up for change:
But in many ways the most significant part of eLib for librarians might actually have been the Ariadne magazine, which rapidly became the place to look for the latest ideas and advice on harnessing the potential of technology.
I believe the answer is that we actually need librarians more than ever to help us find and make sense of all that information.
And in academia there is a particular need for librarians to help open up research outputs and teaching and learning materials to ensure they are reused, revised, remixed and redistributed.
If librarians fail to keep pace with the changing needs of existing and future patrons, then they will render themselves obsolete; these are scary times and our worth is continually being questioned.
We are both librarians with a public library background so that seemed a promising field to explore.
[13] the news group for librarians.
Despite their steadfastly conservative image, there is no reason to suppose that librarians are less susceptible to such problems than other professionals.
Nevertheless, responsible librarians must attempt to adapt to new technologies.
These last two points highlight areas that service providers will need to address in terms of what exactly the role of the librarian is in this process.
In the meantime, think back 10 years to the beginnings of the e-journal world and the Open Access movement and see if you can predict how librarians can best facilitate 21st century research.
What is a librarian to do?
Librarians should not be threatened or dismayed by this but rather encouraged, since it means that society is retaining its ongoing interest in the creation, organisation and dissemination of content, and we have an integral role to play in these developments.
[2] Librarians are often thought of as gatekeepers with the emphasis being on closed access, but technology enables gatekeepers to open doors as well as close them and this is the opportunity I see.
[7] so they are not totally new, but involving librarians to this extent certainly is.
Librarians are trained to evaluate information, and to choose the best of the best.
Co-ordinated by the LIC, the DfEE, TTA and BECTA will take forward the training of librarians in IT.
In this section, we invited the people behind several of the major Web-based resources for librarians (and, for that matter, academics, students and researchers), to tell us about what they have built and maintained, and how it is useful for people in the academic and research communities.
Then again, non-librarians might take it even less kindly.
Librarians are continuing to take a greater responsibility for supporting and training their own users in transferable information retrieval skills.
Tait, Martzoukou and Reid (2016) rightly pointed out that as academic librarians are called to assert their roles in changing technological and blended learning environments, there is a need for a wider exchange of information and collaboration with other professional groups, both academic and support staff who can provide their expertise on technology and educational/instructional design.
Why Librarians? There are many librarians involved in e-government projects.
Librarians should be at the forefront as the provision of information is a key element; and that is what we do best.
In my experience librarians tend to be very flexible in their approach to their work.
Those of us who still call ourselves librarians should make it clear that we manage information.
Librarians need to be hard-headed about the way they make their services available.
Lucier urges other librarians to do likewise.
In my view, librarians are the ideal guides. 
The role of the librarian in the future is likely to be a varied one, ranging from traditional curation of print materials, to information skills instruction to research access advisors and coordinators.
It was unfortunate there were not more librarians present to put forward their perspectives.
The programme spreads its net more widely than traditional librarianship.
These seemed to be a happy bunch, mainly librarians from the North East of England and Scotland.
Its good for the librarians because they are the people who produce the user guides and handouts
Then the users and librarians can get on with what libraries are really there for accessing information.
So, according to Cullen, 'librarians (some at least) are here to stay'.
In this context, librarians will more likely collaborate with academics, student support professionals and e-learning technologists who are creating and working in online learning spaces.
The author predicts that librarians will act as midwives in delivering a new age of scholarly communication.
Librarians end up creating them themselves, and using them to support in-house courses such as UK Online's MyGuide, or Computing for the Terrified.
Public librarians should be haunting all the Q&A networks, from DIY to health.
In order to reply to the questions (and in real time!), librarians need to user power search tools such as Copernic, the telephone and books as well as have a good knowledge of library services and the ability to remain calm!
By definition, librarians deal with organisation of and access to information within information systems and are trained to work with searching, browsing, and indexing technologies.’
Whilst librarians in countries including the USA and the UK can take such information for granted, this is not the case everywhere.
5 2 8 6 3 Librarians.
5 7 9 1 3 Librarians.
However, the survey also identified a huge number of users seeking advice and consultation, which tends to suggest that the presence and competence of the librarian are vital.
In the view of librarians, libraries are generally considered friendly, but they are lacking in technology and modernity, both of which receive a rather low rating across all countries.
Librarians also positively evaluate their potential to improve the health of individuals and communities by providing access to health information.
Librarians believe that they can provide access and promote local content.
Librarians consider libraries as being potentially very effective as a channel for dissemination of government information as well as information on agriculture.
Librarians are seen as competent to perform their traditional role but to have limitations in the technology-related services.
This is quite challenging in the light of a significant number of librarians admitting to lacking the necessary skills to advocate for greater visibility and stronger support.
(It is interesting that the terms 'librarian' and 'library' are used frequently throughout the book, rather than 'information professional' and 'information service'; for all his belief in change, the author's mindset seems to have limits to its flexibility.)
That’s what librarians do, right?
References Fowler, Van Riel and Downes, The Reader Friendly Library Service. 2008, London: Society of Chief Librarians.
Or are we being too librarian-like about this?
Dominated by librarians who are not always up-to-date on technology available.
[4] About Open Librarianship.
A combination of a presentation, a one-page “quick guide” and some in-person training was sufficient to get librarians using the system.
Forensics of digital librarianship.
Sometimes up to three librarians could meet at the same shelf in the closed stacks, looking for different books.
What follows is particularly relevant to librarians working in technical positions in academic libraries but draws inspiration from across, and outside of, the academy.
Considering these challenges, it is not surprising that many librarians choose to opt out of pursuing tenure-track positions in libraries or are forced out after starting.
Employment and status of part-time librarians in U.S. academic libraries.
Working from afar: a new trend for librarianship.
Librarians also provided professional development workshops for high school teachers on information literacy topics delivered in a tailored summer program.
Librarians also collaborate with First Year Experience, the Realizing Educational and Career Hopes (REACH) program, and various campus student support services departments.
The role of academic librarians in the era of information technology.
As librarians, we draw great benefit from collaborative efforts.
Code of ethics for librarians.
Most libraries will have at least a general Ask-a-Librarian queue.
They can also use their client to IM other librarians on the LibraryH3lp system.
We arrange as archivists but describe as librarians.
Marooned Librarian.
Teaching & Learning Librarian.
Web Systems Librarian.
Teaching & Learning Librarian.
Many librarians use RTS such as LibAnswers (Flatley and Jensen 2012), Desk Tracker, and Gimlet (Chan and Johns-Masten 2014).
Full-time degreed librarians still primarily cover reference.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship 36(4): 279-286.
Returns Librarian Recommended content.
The team is focusing on making it easier for librarians to author and maintain their content, as well as integrating design improvements.
We white librarians have much work to do.
Management Librarian
The Journal of Academic Librarianship 41, no. 2 (2015): pp. 178-185. Yoshimura, Karen Smith.
Librarians must get proximate to the millions of websites holding valuable information by assisting in the creation of custom bots and tools.
Librarians have access to subscribed databases/websites and have an in-depth understanding of the availability and reliability of resources on the open web.
Another challenge is that librarians use metadata in a different way compared to researchers, and that even different research fields use different metadata within their own systems.
Librarians [Internet].
Over one-third of respondents (n=330) identified themselves as Librarians, followed by over one-quarter as Archivists.
You know, someday little kids will think that being a librarian is a cool job, because it is.
In any consortial implementation, a good path to follow might be to recruit potential peer mentors around the state and locate librarians with backgrounds in copyright who are able to answer questions and work through items and collections with librarians whose strengths are in other areas.
These have the potential to greatly improve the user experience for the librarians.
Librarianship has a code of ethics.
Git and GitHub for Librarians.
Librarians tested, explained, clarified their needs and tested again.
This offers the additional potential benefit of fostering personal relationships between librarians and students that can last through their doctoral programs.
We highly encourage librarians to take online courses or free workshops to learn these skills, and then apply them to simpler projects.
By adopting this approach, librarians can make well-informed decisions and conduct thorough analysis, resulting in more efficient and effective management of library resources. by Jennifer Ye Moon-Chung 1.
A librarian will focus on basic information literacy skills so a student can get through the research aspect of their paper.
Librarians communicated with stakeholders across campus as well.
Librarian GBPUAT
There are numerous free tools available to assist librarians working with electronic resources in various tasks and to help them get started on large projects fairly quickly and easily.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship 31(1), 60-62.
Journal of Academic Librarianship, 31(1), 60-62.
Librarians were maintaining subject web pages and paper subject guides.
Because each librarian has his or her own style and HTML/CSS skill level, the look of the subject pages and the type of information found on the pages varied greatly.
Herrick has four librarians, including the library director, and seven support staff.
Notes [1] Faculty and students often pop by looking for a specific librarian, and I thought these might be useful bits of information.
Librarians only need to fill out simple Web forms to add resources into the system for their course pages.
You have covered a huge range of resources available to Librarians and this could come in very handy for an assignment I am soon to complete for University.
Librarians need to realize solutions must be sustainable, not just fill a need.  
The Library & Archives has a staff of more than 85 including 25 librarians.
The librarian needs access to the library catalogue and other online resources.
Librarians who are not programmers or system administrators want services, and want them delivered on time via the path of least resistance.
Google Code is certainly findable, but sites such as Sourceforge and Google Code use a language and presentation style that tends to repel the non-technically inclined librarian, i.e., most librarians.
These people are often not librarians, although one frequently sees job ads asking for librarians who have such skills, as if library schools were actually cranking out such people in any quantity (they should be, and this failure will negatively impact libraries for decades).
We also met our goal of providing librarians with an easy-to-use publishing system.
Librarians working with technology are not working alone.
Whilst librarians are traditionally focused on the accurate description of the actual manifestations they own or have access to, users are more typically seeking at the work and content level; if a particular edition is not readily available an alternative with equal content is usually acceptable for all but elite researchers.
Librarians appreciate having the ability to manage their own content and be able to simply modify their pages when they see the need. 
It is a thriving community. by Eric Lease Morgan Something for everyone Each article in this issue has a little bit of something for all who call themselves a librarian or work in a library.
Kenneth Furuta and Michele Potter describe a simple help system that brings librarians running to the reference desk.
This means that librarians will be critical in helping users create, organize and find information on the web.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship 34(6):496-501.
Perhaps most popular among librarians is Terry Reese’s software MarcEdit
With new web-based technologies like Meebo [1], librarians can now be available for virtual reference anywhere they have Internet access.
undergraduate students, graduate students, library staff, or professional librarians. 
The Journal of Academic Librarianship, 28(6), 414-417.
The provision of specific services for librarians and for authors is more uneven.
Because of these efforts, Lynch (2002) notes that the historically separate roles of librarian, scholar, curator and teacher are blurring alongside the traditional distinctions between libraries, museums and archives.
To further that goal, I would like to hear from other librarians who are concerned about these issues and who would also be interested in seeing a publisher-aggregator-librarian forum come to fruition.
Librarians may also like a better understanding of staffing needs and start-up and ongoing costs.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship, 37(3), 246-254.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship, 34(6), 489-495.
With their expertise in search, metadata generation, and ontology development, librarians should actually be well positioned to understand and implement linked data.
Many researchers (such as Chowdhury and Chowdhury, 2003; Tanner, 2001) have described digital librarians' roles, and have suggested core competencies and skills needed to perform these roles.
Librarians are thus faced with the challenge of acquiring advanced knowledge and skills to augment what they traditionally learned, and to do so while at the same time there is a shortage of experienced library staff (Tennant, 2002).
Librarian Career Development, 7(10), 91-107.
Librarians in the digital age: Planning digitization projects.
Digital libraries: The digital librarian shortage.
Journal of Academic Librarianship.
Journal of Academic Librarianship, 26(6), 385-393.
Digital Libraries: The Digital Librarian Shortage.
Librarians need to have data points to make informed decisions.
Provide access to expert librarians.
In these, librarians manage immense bodies of material, laying the foundation for more individual editorial projects.
The creation of the eResource Value Site would provide a more level playing field for librarians.
Librarians are concerned about preserving these resources, too.
A trendy marketing tool for librarians but not for libraries, one might add.
A survey of academic librarians", Library Hi Tech, 28 (3): 470-477.
[1] "The Library continually sought out interviews and meetings ... with leaders in industry, technology, librarianship and archiving, and scholarship.
Facilitate selections of appropriate sources by librarians according to the constituencies they serve.
And librarians need to be courageous about this.
Introduction In this paper I want to reflect on the "competitive space" that librarians now occupy and strategies that may offer the best chance to maintain services important to our user communities in the turbulent years ahead.
Librarians have to make sure that students, university administrators and faculty would all reply with a resounding "yes."
As new technologies mature, a number of new opportunities will present themselves as challenges to librarians who wish to sustain their role as a provider of a common good in an increasingly heterogeneous and competitive space.
If librarians are committed to sustaining their role as providers of an important common good in the emerging turbulent and competitive space of higher education, it can be done.
Librarians Are Us: Images & Realities, CARL 2000, Long Beach, October 2000.
"Reinventing academic libraries and librarianship," College & Research Libraries News 61(10):894-897 (2000) and Campbell, Jerry.
These include 'piggy-backing' on the activities and social/professional networks of 'meta-librarians' and 'barefoot librarians'1 (Zeitlyn et al., 1999, p.3
Unfortunately for those who sell information, there are far more users of libraries than there are librarians in the world.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship.
Librarians are seldom consulted about these matters even though it is an area of expertise for many of them.
Academic librarians must become more savvy in articulating their value to the educational enterprise in order to prosper in a rapidly changing information environment.
A National Study of the Future of Librarians in the Workforce.
The librarians' role here is to press collection development issues with those at the organization's higher management levels.
Librarians must continue to be proactive in their attempts to reach students and other researchers where they begin their search.
Librarians achieve their organization through the careful preparation and maintenance of bibliographic data — i.e., descriptive information about the resources in their collections.
New Review of Academic Librarianship 16.S1 (2010): 98-115.
New review of academic librarianship 16.S1 (2010): 116-131.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship, 36(4), 304-312.
What are librarians to do and what should their universities think?
Librarians should be in this game in a big way, and many are.
Libraries and librarians will do two things most.
A "How-To" Marketing Tool Written Specifically for Librarians!"
Surprenant and Perry envision librarians as technologists, working with tools that utilize artificial intelligence and multitasking to assist learners in creating individualized information portfolios.
With collaboration as the key, librarians will work closely with other libraries, information technology and computer science departments, instructional designers, and information architecture specialists to service student needs.
Julie Still, another Rutgers University, Camden, librarian suggests that librarians will hold their place simply because they are "So Darned Charming"
People will continue to come to librarians because they lack the time and skills to efficiently do the job themselves.
[11] Beth Posner, "Is there a Librarian in the House?"
In addition, school librarians need to maintain strong, current, and well-publicized professional collections pertaining to classroom discipline, educational research, and local credentialing requirements.
Database/CD Problems: Librarians must know how to provide solutions to library database problems.
Librarians who have shown the greatest interest in the database build the contents of the bulletin board folders, lists, electronic file database, and links by sending email to the dedicated account.
But more than that, libraries and librarians are a crucial nexus between the information scientists who develop these tools and the research scientists who use them.
The traditional services that librarians have always provided include the selection, organization, and provision of enhanced access to useful information.
Traditionally, if librarians know of student or faculty research interests, they attempt to keep those researchers informed of potentially useful sources.
Probably, the example best known to librarians is the recommender system used by the online bookseller Amazon.
IS librarians are engaging in greatly expanded public relations by personal visits and presentations, email updates to departments, exhibits and other activities.
As fewer and fewer people physically visit traditional libraries to address their information needs, it becomes increasingly difficult for librarians to build relationships with users.
Their implementations mirror most of the fundamental processes of librarianship: collection, organization, preservation, and dissemination.
Overall, professional librarians with a master's level degree did the majority of the work.
Professional training and experience in librarianship.
That limitation in traditional librarianship means that librarians have the great benefit of being able to hear from their customers, the satisfied ones and the angry ones.
The first chapter has a broad survey of general applicability about the state of librarianship today.
The professional librarian can in turn, with her/his knowledge and high competence [11], and by collaborating outside of the library organization, be able to meet researchers' needs and make self-archiving attractive to them.
In order to safeguard the integrity, and thus the critical addressability of Humanities data collections, librarians can be guided by three conceptually complementary positions advanced by Miriam Posner, Victoria Stodden, and Roopika Risam.
While efforts in this area are nascent, they offer exciting opportunities for thinking anew about how librarians and the collections they steward can catalyze research, pedagogy, and our collective creative potential.  
Most of all, some computer scientists couldn't understand why librarians couldn't be, well, normal computer scientists.
Opportunities now arise for direct connections between librarians and scholarly authors.
This closeness opens new opportunities for librarians to expand their operations.
Metadata fundamentals for all librarians.
Who Librarian
In Digital Librarian: a Librarian’s Choice of the Best of the Web.
The librarians come from a variety of backgrounds including special, academic, and public libraries, and are trained by LSSI to meet specific library requirements.
Journal of Academic Librarianship, 26(6), 385-394.
Dupuis concluded that librarians should: Seek others interested in collaboration; Develop a model to encourage stakeholders; Design for flexibility and maintainability; Overcome criticism and doubt;
Librarians should also seek collaboration with faculty on all levels.
There are an abundance of courses on the market to increase the librarian's hands-on experience.
The Internet provides great opportunities for international communication between librarians all over the world and can help to bridge gaps.
This suggests there is an opportunity for librarians to work with the community to develop subject resource guides or library guides, training workshops or other information portals which might raise awareness of resources available that are specific to this user community.
Current and future librarians need an inexpensive, robust mechanism, which they control, to ensure their communities maintain long-term access to this essential literature.
Librarians retain paper publications to ensure long-term accessibility.
Librarians are leading IR development and implementation, serving on planning and advisory committees, pilot-testing software, recruiting content, identifying early adopters, etc.
Increasingly, librarians will be involved in teaching classes --sometimes in close cooperation with faculty, sometimes in general skills courses.
Librarians should talk with students and find out in which ways librarians can best accommodate student learning.
Librarians can start small and develop ideas and projects in close cooperation with their patrons.
Librarians have, and can develop further, unique skills to support educational innovation and they have the opportunity to act as role models within their institutions.
Depending on the skills that librarians need in a particular institutional context, alternative or supplementary approaches could be taken.
"What Do Librarians Want from Data Management Workshops?.
The author was one of the librarians who participated in this working group.
Librarians provide information, but someone else interprets the information and considers its value in meaning systems.
This certainly does not mean that librarians should venture into scholarly interpretation.
In some cases, librarians did not respond quickly enough to external challenges, or failed to interact with relevant professional communities, as new technologies emerged.
Historically, librarians have been most concerned with the formal (i.e., journals, technical papers, conference proceedings, white papers, research reports).
This partnership between librarians has proven very useful for maximizing existing relationships between academics and librarians to establish the repository and its services.
I just tell her I'm not a real librarian, but I play one on the Internet.
Librarians can learn on their own and test themselves.
Librarian-oriented.
Building the collection in the Librarian interface.
Therefore, academic librarians need to be aware of how these developments may impact their responsibilities and role within a university.
Academic librarians will have to pay careful attention to these developments.
By providing links to open access research guides and tutorials, librarians are at the very least offering services that can be repeated by large numbers of students with varying affiliation to the hosting university and faculty.
Making embedded librarians a part of an online community of learners.
The Journal of Academic Librarianship, 37(6), 460-470. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.acalib.2011.07.002 [6] Davis, P. M., & Connolly, M. J. (2007).
Early in my career, it was the profession wide culture of cross-institutional collaboration that convinced me that becoming a librarian would be the right career move.
recent years, this issue has grown beyond the boundaries of professional librarianship and has become a general concern regularly addresssed by classroom faculty, educational administrators, and even regional accrediting organizations and state legislatures.
Again, the librarian and the faculty member modeled for the students an approach to the critical evaluation of information resources that drew not only on the professional expertise of the librarian, but also on the scholarly expertise of the faculty member .
Many librarians are now dealing with the Internet and the Web on a daily basis.
Librarians often forget that as a profession we collaborate and cooperate with an ease seldom seen in other endeavors.
First of all, based on my experience, most librarians simply take pride in their ability to collect, organize, and disseminate data and information in an effective manner.
Librarians, generally speaking, just like what they do and they certainly aren't in it for the money.
You won't get rich by becoming a librarian.
In Library Land, one of these individuals is almost always a librarian.
Ironically, librarianship is flowering under new rubrics such as information architects and knowledge managers.
This is a challenging problem that every librarian must give attention to.
Librarians must also know the technologies that can resolve these issues.
Please show us where would you go to find help and/or chat with a librarian?
Nobody knows a library’s users and patrons as well as librarians.
Seemingly, in their view, librarians are at worst Luddites and at best technological neophytes.
In my view, librarians have always been at worst technological power users and at best true IT innovators.
Much work has been done to educate librarians and patrons about the risks facing them and the measures they can take to protect themselves.
90 Philomena W. Mwaniki, “Envisioning the Future Role of Librarians: Skills, Services and Information Resources,” Library Management 39, no. 1, 2 (2018): 2–11, https://doi.org/10.1108/LM-01-2017-0001.
In this way, librarians work in a more comfortable environments, performing analytical operations interactively and visualizing query results without additional programming knowledge.
This disintermediation has many benefits, enabling librarians to share and interact directly with their communities, and reducing costly development overhead.
Librarians can use platforms like Twitter and Facebook to help coordinate their activities and services alongside with other responders in the community.
Types of librarian work benefiting from knowledge of a foreign language (multiple responses allowed, n=104).
Librarians have offered workshops and consultations for faculty for everything from designing effective research assignments, to scholarly impact, and open educational resources.
While librarians may not be able to provide direct support in terms of instructional technologies, they can certainly inform efforts to integrate open and critical pedagogy and scholarship into faculty development programming and into the curriculum.
Librarians may also have reduced their efforts to incorporate guides into their teaching and outreach strategies.
But librarians have evolved to be excellent at long-term thinking about our goals and values and how to pursue an exciting future vision based on what we know now and what tools (technology, people, ideas) we have at hand.
The librarians are unapproachable.
The reference librarians are not approachable.
The reference librarians are unhelpful.
Most feel the librarians and library staff care and are responsive and available to students.
Pre-survey responses indicated one or two of the participants felt librarians are unapproachable or unhelpful.
The reference librarians are unfriendly.
will soon be posting a position for a UX librarian.”
Still others reported that librarians in other units or library administrators are INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND LIBRARIES MARCH 2020 USER EXPERIENCE METHODS AND MATURITY IN ACADEMIC LIBRARIES | YOUNG, CHAO, AND CHANDLER 19 not required or encouraged to consult with the UX librarian or integrate UX research.
For security concerns, as with privacy concerns, librarians have a crucial role to play in user education.
However, many of the faculty did not use these librarians or resources.
Librarians were also approached at this time to get their input and feedback.
Instead of a rigid path of career development, many librarians today have fluid and multi-faceted careers.
“If librarians are expected to be excellent communicators at the reference desk and in the classroom, then the library website should complement the work of a librarian.
Moreover, it presented efficient suggestions of how librarians can hold reading promotion activities on campus and how librarians can play a more positive role in presenting reading promotion plans to their administrations.
Librarians 73 (14.7%) 69 (11.7%) 421 (49.3%) 563 (29.1%)
4 Colleen Boff, Robert Schroeder, Carol Letson, and Joy Gambill, “Building Uncommon Community with a Common Book: The Role of Librarians as Collaborators and Contributors to Campus Reading Programs,” Research Strategies 20, (2007): 272–83, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resstr.2006.12.004.
Librarians swooned.
Librarians understand that information cannot be free and accessible unless everyone has Internet access and knows how to use it.
Librarians have had time to adjust typical pedagogical practices, learn new virtual technologies, and develop outreach plans to ensure continued library instruction in remote and online environments.
As they stated, “students who have access and are in contact with librarians seem to have adequate skills.
Librarians can attempt to meet students and faculty where they are by offering multimodal learning opportunities, including both synchronous and asynchronous offerings (Zoom meetings, prerecorded videos, tutorials/quizzes, Canvas discussion posts, and LibGuides are a few options).
As professionals in a unique role serving both students and faculty, librarians may also check in on a person-to-person basis with both groups.
Librarians should also prioritize their own health (mental and physical) and stress management.
Librarians should be kind to themselves and their colleagues and offer or ask for support when needed.
Once libraries closed, librarians promoted ebooks and other important platforms available to patrons with their library cards.
In addition, librarians currently hold faculty rank at many research universities and actively present and publish both in library-focused journals, thematic journals (e.g., information literacy), as well as in other venues, often alongside faculty partners.18 The embedded curricular model places librarians in the role of learning designers and as creators of extended, discipline-specific content.
55 Janice Y. Kung, K-Lee Fraser, and Dee Winn, “Diversity Initiatives to Recruit and Retain Academic Librarians: A Systematic Review,” College and Research Libraries 81, no. 1 (2020): 96–108, https://doi.org/10.5860/crl.81.1.96. 56 Trevar Riley-Reid, “Breaking Down Barriers:
As information specialists, librarians are in a unique position to educate patrons on information policy, and in this case, copyright.
In supporting high-impact student research, librarians do not act alone.
It provides an efficient channel to communicate with librarians.
These services include Al: Ask a librarian;
The librarians were from distinct institutions: two community colleges and four 4year universities ranging from 2,000 enrolled students to 30,000 enrolled students, and library departments from 10 to over 200 library personnel.
The librarian would then answer through email (or phone, if provided and applicable).
For consortial libraries, librarians can become much closer to each other and learn to seek out and receive help from one another in the ways that they might never do before.
Expert university librarians provided support during this phase.
30 Perhaps the most fundamental mission of the librarian is to assist patrons in locating the knowledge they seek.
Indeed, as noted by Barron and Preater, “contemporary librarianship, as practitioners have constructed it, could not exist without library systems.
With less control of and access to the systems used in the library, librarians are disadvantaged.
Librarians must evaluate whether this is the best model for libraries and their patrons.
At the same time, it is important for librarians to critically evaluate and challenge cultural assumptions around the current state of open source and the inherent power dynamics, and information as a commodity.
Previously, each librarian had the autonomy to build their guides in whichever way they saw fit.
Each librarian creates a guide that is, by their own account, user-friendly and informational all the while failing to consider the design preferences and research processes of the student.
Its members include both librarians and staff with relevant experience.
Not all of the librarians contribute regularly.
It would be helpful to formalize the role of librarians as content contributors.
Karl Drinkwater, “E-Book Readers: What are Librarians to Make of Them?”
Further they suggest that some librarians are using a substantial professional IT skills subset.
and I am interested in returning to a more traditional librarian role.
Librarians are being thrust into the position of de facto copyright expert.
Librarians as standard-bearers for the free culture movement.
Librarians need to engage in the debate over copyright law to retain control over their collections, and to better serve their patrons.
As librarians, we must curate and defend the creative property of the established, while fostering the innovative spirit of the next generation.
Librarians have valuable skills sets in mining and accessing data, human–computer interaction, computer interface design, and knowledge management that can be leveraged now.
Librarians can review vast amounts of information and analyze, evaluate, and organize it according to a company’s specific needs.”
The librarians also would train library staff, so needed to be able to teach and develop documentation and tailor instruction to specific staff needs.
Librarians are beginning to explore our role in this new paradigm of providing access to and helping to manage data in addition to bibliographic resources.
35 Librarians’ desire to offer reference services or other assistance via mobile devices follows naturally from their long-standing efforts to enable patrons to ask questions via e-mail, chat, instant messaging, or SMS text.
The experiences of librarians are useful for people who are evaluating opensource ILSs as well as those who are in the process of adoption.
Learning from their experiences will help librarians to not have to reinvent the wheel.
This requires getting experiences from multiple librarians.
As I look forward, I have been thinking about librarians and the changes I have witnessed in library technology.
We are lucky to have had brave librarians like Ranganathan, Carter, and Truitt.
Librarians working in disciplines across the academic spectrum may incorporate them into their arsenal of tools to meet patron needs.
Even then, many librarians are barely familiar with their book collection’s organizational structure and are reticent to recommend broad subject browsing.
While neither is specifically directed at librarians, I think both deserve to be read and discussed widely in our community.
This absence of legislation may give the impression of irrelevance, but as more core components of librarianship migrate to the web, librarians should confront these issues so they can serve all patrons more effectively.
As gatekeepers of information and research resources, librarians should want to be the first to provide unrestricted and unhindered access to all patrons despite their ability.
Librarians and archivists already in place are wondering what they can do in the meantime.
Librarianship is an institutional profession.
Librarians work in a highly technical and technological environment, and this is only going to become even more the case for future generations of librarians.
Certainly, basic familiarity with a variety of applications and tools and comfort with rapidly changing technologies are major assets for librarians.
Librarians need to be ahead of the crowd as the voice that assures content will be readily accessible to those who seek it.
In some circumstances, the librarian will need to move beyond her local community and raise awareness of community access issues on the state and federal level.
Librarians understand the perspective of their patrons and are grounded in their local communities.
Librarians can therefore advocate effectively for their communities on issues that may not completely be understood or even recognized as mattering.
To best serve student patrons, academic librarians need to be proficient with the technologies that student patrons expect.
Librarian 2.0 is where the user is, when the user is there.
This posed a dilemma for the librarians.
At the same time, academic librarians frequently struggle with the goals of the campus administration responsible for providing secure, reliable networks, sometimes at the expense of the needs of the outside community.
Ralph E. Russell, Carolyn L. Robison, and James E. Prather, “External User Access to Academic Libraries,” The Southeastern Librarian 39 (Winter 1989): 135. 16.
This is particularly true of more resistant users who may have been expecting a strong hard-sell approach on the part of librarians.
By incorporating some of the seemingly paradoxical and counterintuitive techniques discussed earlier, librarians may be able to penetrate the resistance of researchers and reach them at a deeper, less rational level.
Summary Librarians with responsibility for Web design and technology management operate in an evolving environment.
Trained to ensure access to a range of informational resources, librarians need to be concerned with access to Internet content.
Librarians can play a pivotal role by advocating for a system that supports the user at the moment of need.
Today, librarians need to be able to work seamlessly among the online communities, the resources they create, and the end user.
Librarians, trained to be impartial and ethically bound to assure access to information, are the logical mediators among content creators, the architecture of the Web, corporate interests, and policy makers.
Information organization is one issue on which librarians can be progressive.
Dedicated to making information available, librarians are in a unique position to take on challenges raised by the Internet.
Librarians have always leveraged the interests and needs of their users to tailor their services to the individual entry point of every person who enters the library.
Because more and more resources are accessed via the Internet, librarians will have to maintain a presence throughout the Web if they are to continue to speak for the informational needs of their users.
If we librarians cannot fulfill these needs our places are not assured.
If we librarians cannot fulfill these needs our places are not assured.
Improving the usability of the library websites therefore should be a primary concern for librarians.
Librarians may develop more advanced computing skills to address a lack of technical support, to develop new services, or for professional or personal interest.
To keep up-todate, librarians meet regularly with other OCLC staff, and monitor organizational changes.
The people of MyLibrary are patrons and librarians.
Librarians are not seen as the only authority on data and information.
The subject-specific librarian is . .
Librarians are doing a lot of things we never imagined we’d ever need or want to do.
We strive to be reflective of the broad, major issues of concern to all librarians, as well as alert to interesting applications that may be little more than a blip at the edge of our collective professional radar screen.
Academic librarians cannot afford to be considered irrelevant in the information-seeking world.
Librarians, in contrast, have devel­ oped systems and practices to ensure the findability of materials that enter the library.
Many libraries and librarians already are pursuing this goal.
Librarians should instead focus on the phenomena made possible by the technology.
In traditional librarianship, the librarians provide metadata that patrons then use to make selections.
These questions are hardly new to the underlying principles of librarianship.
Katz et al. (2004) and Brasley (2006) provide a detailed account of this design and development process, illustrating the critical role played by librarians and other faculty from higher education.
All librarians and others interested in library instruction are welcome and encouraged to contribute.
Librarians work together to overcome these barriers.
Librarianship is a service profession that consequently attracts service­minded individuals who are interested in helping others, whether they are library patrons or fellow colleagues.
It might be the case that librarians are experimenting in safer contexts so they will gain experience prior to trying more public projects where their expertise will be needed.
Librarians are as individuals almost all or almost always polite in their professional discourse.
Librarians should watch the paths they are taking and build upon them.
They also touch at the heart of what librarians have always stood for: protection of intellectual property, personal pri­ vacy, and intellectual freedom.
Librarians, as a third type of human resource, provided reference services and collected necessary information resources for their academic research.
Students seemed surprisingly open about showing librarians their profiles, which usually contained more information than the librarians wanted to know.
The author believes that there will continue to be a role for librarians in assisting users to find, evaluate, and use information.
The concept illustrates the difference between the practice of librarianship and library science.
The reality for most librarians is that, sometime in their career, they will be involved in strategic management and planning.
Most librarians are promoted or coerced into leadership and management roles, often with little or no training or resources at their disposal to assist them with the transition or change of responsibilities.
Librarians use tools developed by other organizations to provide access to their content.
LITA has many new librarians who have strong potential for leadership.
The library catalog?
Librarians must be knowledgeable about Web site usability and trends in Web site design in order to communicate effectively to designers and administrators.
Librarians must work with both library and university administrators to create a well-designed but usable library Web site.
Unlike almost any other profession, librarians are expected to fulfill their patrons’ informational needs without question or bias.
Librarians seem the most appropriate group for developing shared understanding.
And librarians have a professional ethic that drives them to provide instruction and assistance for the services the library offers.
This is a good opportunity for librarians to recognize some of their strengths and capitalize on them.
Libraries are more than warehouses of books and periodicals.
Each department has at least one professional librarian and other library staff members responsible for their daily operations.
Michael Gorman, Our Enduring Values: Librarianship in the 21st Century (Chicago: American Library Association, 2000).
Based on survey comments, the researchers noted two categories of new librarians: those who have a high level of technical experience, usually from a previous job in a technology related industry, and those who struggle with technology.
Millennial librarians just want to be able to shape the profession in their own way.
The most librarians can do is suggest changes to the vendor, based on the results of studies and observations.
We are fortunate to have them available at such a critical moment in the history of librarianship.
In the past several years, an increasing number of librarians have turned to freeware and opensource software to help them fulfill the duties they are obligated to discharge.
Finally, with the assistance of freeware and open-source software, librarians become better librarians.
Librarians can offer critical assistance in these cases, especially for individuals who do not own a computer or have Internet access in their homes.
| MARCH 2014 18 communities.56 This would have the dual benefit of giving librarians better information with which they could focus their services for maximum value and providing graduate-student and professional-level researchers with a stronger understanding of their field.
There remains much important and exciting material to be presented to librarians and computer people about each other's work.
Librarians work across geographic boundaries regionally and nationally in consortia and multitype systems for resource sharing, collaborative research and development projects, digitization initiatives, staff development programs, and any number of efforts to economize and improve performance.
Those selected will include both librarians and library assistants who regularly provide reference assistance.
Those selected will include both librarians and library assistants who regularly provide reference assistance.
SCIENTISTS VS LIBRARIANS
(A first for librarians!)
They  suggested  that  librarians  focus  on  public   obligations,  free  speech  and  censorship,  and  potential  for  illegal  activities  occurring  on  library   workstations.  
Librarians  themselves  are  often  uncertain  about  what   information  is  collected  and  stored  as  evidenced  by  our  data  (Chart  6).    
In   other  words,  librarians  may  need  to  build  strong  collaborative  relationships  with  those  who  have   the  technical  skills,  expertise  and  credentials  to  implement  and  maintain  these  complicated  tools.  
Yet librarians struggle to balance escalating demands on their time.
But even as these services become increasingly important, librarians struggle to balance escalating demands on their time.
It makes it easier for students to book a consultation with a librarian, while at the same time allowing the librarian to better control their schedule; Rebecca Zuege Kuglitsch (rebecca.kuglitsch@colorado.edu) is Head, Gemmill Library of Engineering, Mathematics & Physics, University of Colorado Boulder.
Such an ap *The technical person need not be a librarian.
librarians must continue aggressively to support.
This has not been forthcoming, and local pressures from their users, their administrators, and their own developing systems are forcing these librarians to act without waiting for the national effort.
All librarians must be acquainted with these growing resources in order to continue to provide full service to their patrons.
In general, librarians and vendors are good friends.
Or we may receive a onepage brochure from an unknown company, touting its latest, very competitive system, and listing the familiar names of well-respected librarians as advisors.
In no other realm have the common practices of both users and librarians changed more than in how we seek information.
In general, there are many tools on the web, and librarians must expend effort determining how to make the best use of each.
With less emphasis on print materials, librarians might focus on the wealth of sources available electronically via INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND LIBRARIES | DECEMBER 2015 61 databases and ebooks, as well as open-source, free online resources.
Librarians must cultivate an understanding of the resources patrons use and the formats in which they prefer to access information.
Academic librarians have assumed a prominent and de facto role as curators, facilitating the role of university publication and emphasizing its break away from previous ties with commercial entities.
This article reveals that readers tend to pull books out of the bookshelf layers that are easily reachable by human eyes and hands, and thus opens some issues for librarians to reconsider the management of library collections.
This article reveals that readers tend to pull books out of the bookshelf layers that are easily reachable by human eyes and hands, and thus opens some issues for librarians to reconsider the management of library collections.
phenomenon that librarians needed to pay attention to .
But Kahle is not the only librarian.
Finally, to continue their strong track record as experts in navigating the landscape of digital scholarship, librarians need to research assumptions regarding best practices for scholarly logistics.
Librarians should discuss the answers to these questions and be ready to provide expert advice to users.
However, Anderson and May also relied on faculty staff in addition to librarians.
As technology continues to evolve, librarians should be required to engage in continued learning in these areas.
In addition, librarians themselves need to engage in user experience research and design to discover and test the usefulness of possible intermediary solutions.
Librarians must also become more educated as a profession on digital privacy issues and their ethical implications in order to educate patrons about their fundamental rights to privacy and empower them to make decisions about which discovery tools to use.
We encourage other librarians to explore their unique user populations when evaluating services and resources.
How could you contact a librarian for help?